# Publications

### 2015

Stefan Radomski. **Formal verification for multimodal dialogs in pervasive
environments**. Ph.D. Thesis, Dec. 2015, Technische Universität Darmstadt,
tuprints.

Dirk Schnelle-Walka and Stefan Radomski. **Modern standards for VoiceXML in
pervasive multimodal applications**. In International Journal of Mobile Human
Computer Interaction, Hershey, PA, USA, 2015. IGI Global.

Dirk Schnelle-Walka, Stefan Radomski, J. Barnett, and Max Mühlhäuser.
**Proceedings of the 2nd EICS Workshop on Engineering Interactive Computer
Systems with SCXML**, July 2015.

Dirk Schnelle-Walka, Stefan Radomski, and Max Mühlhäuser. **Modern standards
for VoiceXML in pervasive multimodal applications**. Emerging Perspectives on
the Design, Use, and Evaluation of Mobile and Handheld Devices, page 22, 2015.

Dirk Schnelle-Walka, Stephan Radeck-Arneth, and Jürgen Striebinger.
**Multimodal dialog management in a smart home context with SCXML**. 2nd SCXML
Workshop on Engineering Interactive Computer Systems with SCXML, page 10, 2015.

### 2014

Stefan Radomski, Tim Neubacher, and Dirk Schnelle-Walka. **From Harel to
Kripke: A provable datamodel for SCXML**. In EICS2014 Engineering Interactive
Systems with SCXML Workshop Proceedings, 2014.

Stefan Radomski, Dirk Schnelle-Walka, Torbjörn Lager, Jim Barnett, Deborah
Dahl, and Max Mühlhäuser. **Proceedings of the 1st EICS Workshop on Engineering
Interactive Computer Systems with SCXML**, July 2014.

Stefan Radomski, Dirk Schnelle-Walka, and Leif Singer. **A debugger for SCXML
documents**. In EICS’14 Workshop on Engineering Interactive Systems with SCXML,
2014.

Dirk Schnelle-Walka, Stefan Radomski, Stephan Radeck-Arneth, and Max
Mühlhäuser. **Towards an information state update model approach for nonverbal
communication**. In 14th International Conference on Computers Helping People
with Special Needs. Springer, 2014.

Dirk Schnelle-Walka, Stefan Radomski, and Max Mühlhäuser. **Multimodal fusion
and fission within W3C standards for nonverbal communication with blind
persons**. In 14th International Conference on Computers Helping People with
Special Needs. Springer, 2014.

### 2013

Stefan Radomski and Dirk Schnelle-Walka. **Spatial audio with the W3C
architecture for multimodal interfaces**. In Workshop on Speech in Mobile and
Pervasive Environments 2013, in conjunction with mobileHCI, 2013.

Stefan Radomski, Dirk Schnelle-Walka, and Stephan Radeck-Arneth. **A Prolog
datamodel for State Chart XML**. In Proceedings of the SIGDIAL 2013 Conference,
pages 127–131, 2013.

Dirk Schnelle-Walka, Stefan Radomski, and Max Mühlhäuser. **JVoiceXML as a
modality component in the W3C multimodal architecture**. Journal on Multimodal
User Interfaces, pages 1–12, 2013.

Dirk Schnelle-Walka, Stefan Radomski, and Stephan Radeck-Arneth.
**Probabilistic dialogue management**. In Proceedings of VikingPLoP 2013
Conference, pages 114–125, 2013.

### 2012

Stefan Radomski and Dirk Schnelle-Walka. **VoiceXML for pervasive
environments**. International Journal of Mobile Human Computer Interaction,
4(2):18–36, 2012.

Dirk Schnelle-Walka and Stefan Radomski. **Entwicklung multimodaler Anwendungen
mit W3C Standards**. OBJEKTspektrum, 03:28–32, 2012.

Dirk Schnelle-Walka and Stefan Radomski. **A pattern language for dialogue
management**. In Proceedings of VikingPLoP 2012 Conference, pages 122–141, 2012.

### 2011

Dirk Schnelle-Walka and Stefan Radomski. **Augmenting VoiceXML with information
from pervasive environments**. In Proceedings of SiMPE 2011, Joint Workshop
with mobileHCI, 2011.
